# Data-Analysis
### Project implemented for the needs of Data Analysis course

This project includes a number of parts related to the Covid-19 pandemic. The data to be analysed are daily coronavirus cases and daily coronavirus related deaths. The data have been extracted from European Center for Disease Control (ECDC). The files Covid19Confirmed and Covid19Deaths have the values of daily new cases and deaths since the beginning of the pandemic, namely from 1/1/2020 to 13/12/2020. The first column is the name of the country, the second column is the continent to which it belongs, the third column is the population of the country and the remaining columns are the values for each day. 
The study will focus on the so-called first wave, i.e. the first spike and fall in the spread of coronavirus. The start and end time for the first wave is defined by the group according to criteria set by the group and may differ for daily cases and daily deaths.
For some countries and days there may be negative values or no data. You can choose to fill them in with data from other sources or correct them with some other reasoned way.

The country assigned to my team is Austria (country A).

## Exercise_1
Consider that the values of daily cases on the days of the first wave correspond to frequencies of new cases for each day, where random variable is the day of the first wave. With this consideration, find the parametric probability distribution with the best fit to the first-wave daily incidence data for country A. The choice will be made from at least 5 different candidate parametric distributions with free choice.

## Exercise_2
Select a sufficient number of other European countries (≥ 10) and fit the parametric probability distribution found to be best in Exercise_1, separately for daily cases and daily deaths. The time period of the first wave should be determined separately for each country (for both cases and deaths). Rank the countries in terms of how well the parametric distribution fits the data for each country (separately for cases and deaths).

## Exercise_3
In this Exercise we want to estimate the time interval from the peak of daily cases to the peak of daily deaths (generally assuming that peak deaths follow peak cases). Following on from Questions 1 and 2, first make a function that estimates the peak of the first wave in terms of daily cases (the same function you would call for deaths) for a given country and based on the maximum value of the fitted most appropriate probability distribution. Then determine the set of countries in Exercise_2, i.e. country A and the other (≥ 10) European countries. Your code must call the function for each of the countries, one time for daily cases and the other time for daily deaths, and calculates the days between peak cases and peak deaths. Based on the sample of time offsets for the number of countries calculate 95% parametric and bootstrap confidence intervals for the average time delay and test at this confidence level whether the time between peak daily cases and deaths can be 14 days.

## Exercise_4
In this Exercise we will assume that the wave path is similar for daily cases and daily deaths, but we expect the path of daily deaths to follow that of daily cases with a delay of some days (as for the peak in Exercise_3. Therefore, we want to determine the delay where the two paths of daily cases and deaths during the first wave are most correlated. You will select country A and 5 other sites (from those used in Questions 2 and 3) and run a program that for each country finds the time offset t for which the Pearson correlation coefficient between daily cases and deaths has the maximum value, for offset values in a time window, e.g. [-20,20].

## Exercise_5
In this Exercise we want to investigate the possibility of predicting the daily deaths from the daily outbreaks in the first wave of a country. In particular, we want to compare simple linear regression models of new deaths on a measure of new cases on the same day, or one day before, two days before, etc. You will make a program that implements this investigation for the same countries that you used in Exercise_4. For each delay $τ$ in a time window, e.g. [0,20], you will fit the simple linear regression model of the random variable of new deaths $y(t)$ at date t by the cases variable $x(t-τ)$ at date t-$τ$. Compare the goodness of fit of the models for different $τ$ and take the delay τ that gives the best fit. Perform a diagnostic test (standard error plot) for each delay. The program will do the above for each country and present the results.

## Exercise_6
Following on from Exercise_5, we want to investigate whether the prediction of daily deaths in the first wave is improved if, instead of using a simple linear regression model on daily cases on the same or a previous day, we use a multiple linear regression model on daily cases in more than one time offset. For the same countries and the same design as in Exercise_5, run the optimal model with the independent variables being the daily cases for delays t in the same time window as you used in Exercise_5, e.g. [0,20], which means the candidate independent variables for the model in the example are $x(t), x(t-1), . . , x(t-20)$. Compare this model with the optimal simple linear regression model that you found in Exercise_5 (if it is not the same), as well as with the full model of all offset variables, i.e. the model with all 21 delay variables in the example above. You will also perform a diagnostic test (standard error plot) for each of the three models (single variable model, all variables model, and selected variables or dimension reduction). The program you develop will do this for each of the countries you used in Exercise_5 and present the results.

## Exercise_7
Following on from Exercise_6, we intend to use the best model we derived in Exercise_6 for predicting daily deaths from daily outbreaks (on the same and/or other previous days in the first wave) to make predictions in time periods after the first wave. The period of the first wave is the learning (training) data set and the second time period is the evaluation data set. You will set the second time period for each country to cover the second wave as closely as possible, where it applies (if there is a peak of the second wave to cover it). Your code will use the model found to be the best in Exercise_6 and make predictions on the evaluation set. It will compare by some statistic (e.g. adjusted coefficient of determination) the errors in the learning set and the evaluation set. This would be repeated for each of the countries used in Exercises 5 and 6.

## Exercise_8
Repeat the same procedure as in Exercise_7 but use a different dimension reduction model. Compare the two models (the one you used in Exercise 6 and 7 and the new model) according to the adjustment errors in the first wave (learning set) and the prediction errors in the second wave (control set). The comparison will be made for each of the countries used in Exercises 5, 6 and 7.
